[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: We're going to
start talking about JavaScript, and
this is purely an introduction
to programming,
aimed towards people who
haven't really done it at all.
So how is JavaScript different from HTML?
Well, HTML is purely presentational,
there's nothing dynamic about it,
there's nothing that changes.
We talked about client server,
server sends back HTML, there it is,
the browser displays it.
Javascript is different,
Javascript is a programming language,
and what that means is it's
interpreted by your browser, so
there are variables, and things change,
and there's a line of execution.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
what can we use JavaScript for?
And there are a ton of
different applications.
It's been around for quite a long time.
Fun fact, it was created in ten days.
Which is like that [NOISE] for
programming language.
So we can use JavaScript for anything
from creating something like a pop-up.
You ever got one of those
on an annoying website?
To something like
a full-fledged video game.
The basic composition of
JavaScript is a statement.
So each line in JavaScript is an
instruction and when the browser reads it,
it executes that line of code.
So for the duration of these slides,
I'll be showing code in this different
font and syntax highlighted, so
that will help you differentiate
between what's code and what isn't.
So,
>> Nina Zakharenko: What's this weird
semi-colon thing going on
at the end of a statement?
So if you think of a JavaScript
statement like a sentence,
then the semi-colon is a period,
it means that this line is done.
And you'll be seeing a bunch of these.
The other thing that you'll
see in JavaScript is comments.
So one-line comments start with
two forward slashes at the end.
And comments are not code,
but can co-exist with code.
So they're not executed by the browser,
they are only read by humans,
so, only meant for yourself or
other people, so notes.
You can also do multi-line comments and
they are a forward slash and a star,
what you wanna write, then they are ended
with a star and another forward slash.
If you have syntax
highlighting in your editor,
you'll see that comments
are a different color.
So some rule of thumbs about comments,
don't try to overuse them in
code that you're sharing.
So, if you have a really complex piece
of code, feel free to comment it, but
don't just put comments in willy
nilly if other people are going to
read it, cuz they should be able to
infer what's going on from your code.
If you do go back and update your code and
you have a bunch of comments, make sure
you update them so that if someone goes
out and reads your code, they're not
reading the comments and getting
the wrong picture of what's going on.
So, there are a few ways that we can
see results when we write JavaScript.
The first way is that super
annoying pop up, the second way
is we can output directly to
the html page, the third way
is that we can display it in that console
that we talked about in the beginning.